README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1>bzmenu</h1>
  <p>
    <a href="https://ko-fi.com/e_tho"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Ko--fi-F16061?style=flat&logo=ko-fi&logoColor=white" alt="Ko-fi"></a>
    <a href="https://liberapay.com/e-tho"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Liberapay-F6C915?style=flat&logo=liberapay&logoColor=333333" alt="Liberapay"></a>
  </p>
  <p>
    <img src="./assets/demo.gif" alt="Demonstration of bzmenu: a launcher-driven Bluetooth manager for Linux" width="800">
  </p>
  <p>
      <a href="https://github.com/e-tho/iwmenu" title="Try iwmenu: a launcher-driven Wi-Fi manager for Linux"><img src="https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/iwmenu-00AADD?style=for-the-badge&logo=wifi&logoSource=feather&logoColor=white" alt="iwmenu: a launcher-driven Wi-Fi manager for Linux" /></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/e-tho/pwmenu" title="Try pwmenu: a launcher-driven audio manager for Linux"><img src="https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/pwmenu-DC6338?style=for-the-badge&logo=volume-2&logoSource=feather&logoColor=white" alt="pwmenu: a launcher-driven audio manager for Linux" /></a>
  </p>
</div>

## About

`bzmenu` (**B**lue**Z** **Menu**) manages Bluetooth through your launcher of choice.

## Dependencies

### Build

- [`Rust`](https://www.rust-lang.org) (includes `cargo`)
- [`pkg-config`](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/pkg-config) – For detecting required libraries
- [`dbus`](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/dbus) – For D-Bus integration headers

### Runtime

- [`bluetoothd`](http://www.bluez.org) – BlueZ daemon
- [`dbus`](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/dbus) – For communicating with `bluetoothd`
- A launcher with `stdin` mode support
- [Notification daemon](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/notification-spec/latest) – For pairing confirmations and other system notifications (e.g. `dunst`, `fnott`, included with DEs or can be installed manually)

#### Optional

- [NerdFonts](https://www.nerdfonts.com) – For font-based icons (default mode)
- [XDG icon theme](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/icon-theme-spec/latest) – For image-based icons (used with `-i xdg`, included with DEs or can be installed manually)

## Compatibility

| Launcher                                   | Font Icons | XDG Icons | Notes                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------ | :--------: | :-------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Fuzzel](https://codeberg.org/dnkl/fuzzel) |     ✅     |    ✅     | XDG icons supported since v1.13.0                                                     |
| [Rofi](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi) |     ✅     |    🔄     | XDG icon support pending via [PR #2122](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi/pull/2122) |
| [dmenu](https://tools.suckless.org/dmenu)  |     ✅     |    ❌     | No XDG icon support                                                                   |
| [bemenu](https://github.com/Cloudef/bemenu)|     ✅     |    ❌     | No XDG icon support                                                                   |
| Custom (stdin)                             |     ✅     |    ❔     | Depends on launcher implementation                                                    |

> [!TIP]
> If your preferred launcher isn't directly supported, use `custom` mode with appropriate command flags.

## Installation

### Build from source

Run the following commands:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/e-tho/bzmenu
cd bzmenu
cargo build --release
```

An executable file will be generated at `target/release/bzmenu`, which you can then copy to a directory in your `$PATH`.

### Nix

Install from nixpkgs:

```nix
{ pkgs, ... }:
{
  environment.systemPackages = [ pkgs.bzmenu ];
}
```

<details>
<summary>Alternative: Install from flake</summary>

Add flake as an input:

```nix
inputs.bzmenu.url = "github:e-tho/bzmenu";
```

Install from flake:

```nix
{ inputs, ... }:
{
  environment.systemPackages = [ inputs.bzmenu.packages.${pkgs.system}.default ];
}
```

</details>

### Alpine Linux

Install from the testing repository:

```shell
apk add bzmenu
```

### Arch Linux

Install from AUR with your favorite helper:

```shell
paru -S bzmenu # or bzmenu-git
```

## Usage

### Supported launchers

Specify an application using `-l` or `--launcher` flag.

```shell
bzmenu -l fuzzel
```

### Custom launchers

Specify `custom` as the launcher and set your command using the `--launcher-command` flag. Ensure your launcher supports `stdin` mode, and that it is properly configured in the command.

```shell
bzmenu -l custom --launcher-command "my_custom_launcher --flag"
```

#### Prompt and Placeholder support

Use `{hint}` as the value for the relevant flag in your command; it will be substituted with the appropriate text as needed.

```shell
bzmenu -l custom --launcher-command "my_custom_launcher --placeholder-flag '{hint}'" # or --prompt-flag '{hint}:'
```

#### Example to enable all features

This example demonstrates enabling all available features in custom mode with `fuzzel`.

```shell
bzmenu -l custom --launcher-command "fuzzel -d --placeholder '{hint}'"
```

### Available Options

| Flag                 | Description                                               | Supported Values                              | Default Value |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `-l`, `--launcher`   | Specify the launcher to use (**required**).               | `dmenu`, `rofi`, `fuzzel`, `bemenu`, `custom` | `None`        |
| `--launcher-command` | Specify the command to use when `custom` launcher is set. | Any valid shell command                       | `None`        |
| `-i`, `--icon`       | Specify the icon type to use.                             | `font`, `xdg`                                 | `font`        |
| `-s`, `--spaces`     | Specify icon to text space count (font icons only).       | Any positive integer                          | `1`           |
| `--scan-duration`    | Specify the duration of device discovery in seconds.      | Any positive integer                          | `10`          |
| `--back-on-escape`   | Return to previous menu on escape.                        | N/A                                           | `false`       |

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for contribution guidelines.

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3, or (at your option) any later version.

## Support this project

If you find this project useful and would like to help me dedicate more time to its development, consider supporting my work.

[![Ko-fi](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ko--fi-F16061?style=for-the-badge&logo=ko-fi&logoColor=white)](https://ko-fi.com/e_tho)
[![Liberapay](https://img.shields.io/badge/Liberapay-F6C915?style=for-the-badge&logo=liberapay&logoColor=black)](https://liberapay.com/e-tho)

Commit message:

Introduce single-action exit as the default and add interactive mode
Makes single-action exit the default behavior so the program exits after any successful action or when Esc is pressed. Adds --interactive mode, replacing --back-on-escape, which keeps the program in the current menu after a successful action and returns to the previous menu on Esc. Closes #10.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1>bzmenu</h1>
  <p>
    <a href="https://ko-fi.com/e_tho"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Ko--fi-F16061?style=flat&logo=ko-fi&logoColor=white" alt="Ko-fi"></a>
    <a href="https://liberapay.com/e-tho"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Liberapay-F6C915?style=flat&logo=liberapay&logoColor=333333" alt="Liberapay"></a>
  </p>
  <p>
    <img src="./assets/demo.gif" alt="Demonstration of bzmenu: a launcher-driven Bluetooth manager for Linux" width="800">
  </p>
  <p>
      <a href="https://github.com/e-tho/iwmenu" title="Try iwmenu: a launcher-driven Wi-Fi manager for Linux"><img src="https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/iwmenu-00AADD?style=for-the-badge&logo=wifi&logoSource=feather&logoColor=white" alt="iwmenu: a launcher-driven Wi-Fi manager for Linux" /></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/e-tho/pwmenu" title="Try pwmenu: a launcher-driven audio manager for Linux"><img src="https://custom-icon-badges.demolab.com/badge/pwmenu-DC6338?style=for-the-badge&logo=volume-2&logoSource=feather&logoColor=white" alt="pwmenu: a launcher-driven audio manager for Linux" /></a>
  </p>
</div>

## About

`bzmenu` (**B**lue**Z** **Menu**) manages Bluetooth through your launcher of choice.

## Dependencies

### Build

- [`Rust`](https://www.rust-lang.org) (includes `cargo`)
- [`pkg-config`](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/pkg-config) – For detecting required libraries
- [`dbus`](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/dbus) – For D-Bus integration headers

### Runtime

- [`bluetoothd`](http://www.bluez.org) – BlueZ daemon
- [`dbus`](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/dbus) – For communicating with `bluetoothd`
- A launcher with `stdin` mode support
- [Notification daemon](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/notification-spec/latest) – For pairing confirmations and other system notifications (e.g. `dunst`, `fnott`, included with DEs or can be installed manually)

#### Optional

- [NerdFonts](https://www.nerdfonts.com) – For font-based icons (default mode)
- [XDG icon theme](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/icon-theme-spec/latest) – For image-based icons (used with `-i xdg`, included with DEs or can be installed manually)

## Compatibility

| Launcher                                   | Font Icons | XDG Icons | Notes                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------ | :--------: | :-------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Fuzzel](https://codeberg.org/dnkl/fuzzel) |     ✅     |    ✅     | XDG icons supported since v1.13.0                                                     |
| [Rofi](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi) |     ✅     |    🔄     | XDG icon support pending via [PR #2122](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi/pull/2122) |
| [dmenu](https://tools.suckless.org/dmenu)  |     ✅     |    ❌     | No XDG icon support                                                                   |
| [bemenu](https://github.com/Cloudef/bemenu)|     ✅     |    ❌     | No XDG icon support                                                                   |
| Custom (stdin)                             |     ✅     |    ❔     | Depends on launcher implementation                                                    |

> [!TIP]
> If your preferred launcher isn't directly supported, use `custom` mode with appropriate command flags.

## Installation

### Build from source

Run the following commands:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/e-tho/bzmenu
cd bzmenu
cargo build --release
```

An executable file will be generated at `target/release/bzmenu`, which you can then copy to a directory in your `$PATH`.

### Nix

Install from nixpkgs:

```nix
{ pkgs, ... }:
{
  environment.systemPackages = [ pkgs.bzmenu ];
}
```

<details>
<summary>Alternative: Install from flake</summary>

Add flake as an input:

```nix
inputs.bzmenu.url = "github:e-tho/bzmenu";
```

Install from flake:

```nix
{ inputs, ... }:
{
  environment.systemPackages = [ inputs.bzmenu.packages.${pkgs.system}.default ];
}
```

</details>

### Alpine Linux

Install from the testing repository:

```shell
apk add bzmenu
```

### Arch Linux

Install from AUR with your favorite helper:

```shell
paru -S bzmenu # or bzmenu-git
```

## Usage

### Supported launchers

Specify an application using `-l` or `--launcher` flag.

```shell
bzmenu -l fuzzel
```

### Custom launchers

Specify `custom` as the launcher and set your command using the `--launcher-command` flag. Ensure your launcher supports `stdin` mode, and that it is properly configured in the command.

```shell
bzmenu -l custom --launcher-command "my_custom_launcher --flag"
```

#### Prompt and Placeholder support

Use `{hint}` as the value for the relevant flag in your command; it will be substituted with the appropriate text as needed.

```shell
bzmenu -l custom --launcher-command "my_custom_launcher --placeholder-flag '{hint}'" # or --prompt-flag '{hint}:'
```

#### Example to enable all features

This example demonstrates enabling all available features in custom mode with `fuzzel`.

```shell
bzmenu -l custom --launcher-command "fuzzel -d --placeholder '{hint}'"
```

### Available Options

| Flag                 | Description                                                        | Supported Values                              | Default Value |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `-l`, `--launcher`   | Specify the launcher to use (**required**).                        | `dmenu`, `rofi`, `fuzzel`, `bemenu`, `custom` | `None`        |
| `--launcher-command` | Specify the command to use when `custom` launcher is set.          | Any valid shell command                       | `None`        |
| `-i`, `--icon`       | Specify the icon type to use.                                      | `font`, `xdg`                                 | `font`        |
| `-s`, `--spaces`     | Specify icon to text space count (font icons only).                | Any positive integer                          | `1`           |
| `--scan-duration`    | Specify the duration of device discovery in seconds.               | Any positive integer                          | `10`          |
| `--interactive`      | Stay in menus after actions and return to previous menu on escape. | N/A                                           | `false`       |

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for contribution guidelines.

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3, or (at your option) any later version.

## Support this project

If you find this project useful and would like to help me dedicate more time to its development, consider supporting my work.

[![Ko-fi](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ko--fi-F16061?style=for-the-badge&logo=ko-fi&logoColor=white)](https://ko-fi.com/e_tho)
[![Liberapay](https://img.shields.io/badge/Liberapay-F6C915?style=for-the-badge&logo=liberapay&logoColor=black)](https://liberapay.com/e-tho)
